The goal of this project is to detect credit card fraud in practical situations. The number of 
credit card frauds is significantly rising these days compared to earlier periods. To trap users and extract money, criminals use a variety of technologies and false identities. Finding a solution to these kinds of frauds is therefore crucial. We created a model in this proposed project to identify fraudulent activity in credit card transactions. The majority of the crucial features needed to identify unlawful and illicit transactions can be provided by this system.It is getting harder to follow the pattern and behaviour of illegal transactions as a result of the rapid changes in technology. One can use the growing number of technologies to come up with a solution.It is now possible to automate this process and reduce the significant amounts of labour required to detect credit card fraud thanks to advancements in machine learning, artificial intelligence, and other pertinent information technology domains. Using a random forest algorithm and decision trees, we will first gather user-generated credit card 
usage data and categorise it as a training and testing dataset. We can examine both the user-provided current data set and the larger data set using this workable algorithm. Next,increase the result data's accuracy. went ahead and processed some of the attributes that were provided in order to detect fraud when looking at the data visualisation graphical model. The methods' effectiveness is evaluated according to their accuracy,sensitivity, and precision and specificity. According to the results, the Random Forest model has the highest accuracy, at 98.6%. Keywords: credit card, criminal transactions, random forest algorithm.
